[Music]
Thanks, good recommendation. Of course, I'll
put it up for everyone. Question: Enri.
Well, I think that more or less the duration
corresponds to the time left,
more or
less that. I think that whatever you feel like.
No, I don't know if I ever sent it to you, Enri. I
think I've sent you others. So, a little more, more
cutesy, maybe, but I don't know if I
'll send this one to you at some point
if you feel like it. Of course, man, Of
course I
like it, it's softer than everything I
was studying, uh, studying, listening to
last night, a little
softer. Come on,
thank you very much. Yes, I'm going
to read what Enri is saying, that there's a
lack of, uh, desire to give thanks, it
's true, to everyone present and absent
as well, and that we continue. And also, and yes,
above all, the thanks, that I've
felt super supported, it's worth as much for
Enri as
well as this Olay and Saso, they were there first,
and now there's the pride, the
comadre, so we left the best
for
last. That's it, it's not that now it's still
crazy pride. Sorry, Fatima, you're
you yedel too thanks thanks
Hi how are you I'm going to let
Fatima speak first she's the one from
orgullo loco I'm not in
orgullo loco but like later I'll do
my presentation so
okay let's
see
Hi Hi Fatima thanks to both of you everyone everyone Hi Well uh Hi
enri
Thank you so much for organizing all
these events and for all the hard work
of organization that it must have been and to tell
the truth I'm really excited and it's
an honor to be alongside
groups like Mind freedom or the people
from ailum that I'm also registered
for the magazine and I receive it every
month well every three months and nothing I'm
Fatima I'm part of the orgullo
loo Madrid collective which is a group of
psychiatric people who are
active in the city of Madrid
well and in the community of Madrid and I'm
going to give a talk I'm going to give a
presentation okay I don't know let's see if I'm
good at this
okay okay well
and I can hear myself
right can I hear you and I'll see the
presentation if necessary send it to me
because it's happened other times
that they ask me to do it  so that it can be seen in
full screen if it's not necessary I
do it okay well so what happens is that let's
see okay hau so what happens is that
I don't see you but well I'm not
trying to do it like that okay Well I'm going to
talk about psychiatrization in the
Spanish state and first of all the well the
healing in the Spanish state to
begin with is based on what would be the
Mental Health system of everything that
is the public system that is usually given
in hospitals as an acute plan
then there are several resources that would be the
medium stay floors that would be
admissions of a few months more or
less and then long stays that there are
people who have been admitted for years and decades
in this type of resources and they
have no way of getting
out or the way to get out is very
very difficult because as there are no
homes or Centers to begin with where they
could join what would be a
life after a lifetime
institutionalized it is almost impossible
for them to get out and then there is also a part
that is all the psychiatrization of what
is the private
health system that is also working in the
Spanish state I don't know if the colleagues I have
not been able to be  before and I don't know if you
have spoken at all about the situation of
the Mental Health system in Spain
But well if I repeat myself whatever it is you
tell me and I'm going to start by saying that it is
exactly psychiatrization which is
the result of applying the
biomedical model that tries to impose the
hypothesis that insanity and
psychic suffering are a
mental illness and that said illness is and
can be treated like any other the
consequences of this model first
would be for all the people that we are that we have
been psychiatric is to
condemn us to a chronicity with
medications many times for life
and with diagnoses that place us
on a lower scale of what
could be said of good of taking away and
depriving us of rights and then on the other
hand what this model achieves is to
individualize what would be the
causes of the conditions On the one hand,
the living conditions or the
oppressions not I mean for example when
a person commits suicide because of an eviction
they say it's because something is wrong with their
brain when the reality is that what is
wrong is obviously this system no and
well all
this the Or whatever  that would be
psychiatrization would be the entire process and
when we say a person is psychiatric
from the moment you make
contact with a doctor or a
psychiatrist or even and already all any
type of psychic suffering that you have
or madness that you have is understood as
an illness that is part of the brain that is
why in the crazy movement we say
that it is not a chemical imbalance but rather
an imbalance of power and well
where we come from is Vallejo Nágera
who was a well you already know him a
military doctor and López Ibor eh Vallejo
Nágera during the Franco regime made or rather he
had a whole theory about the
Red Gene by which Marxists were
considered sick and also I'm going to
read here that they had
degenerative temperaments mediocre intelligences and
innately revolutionary social personalities
and well all this from
Valle joner yes it is true that later
his thought did not have a subsequent school
but at the time it served
among other things to justify the
theft of babies to pathologize everything
that was the dissidence
both political and sexual etc well
science  sexual would also be political and
then López Ibor who was a psychiatrist
also during the regime but he was
more of the Lopus wing in fact they both
were opposites I'm just giving a brief
outline of them and for
everything that is the history of psychiatry I
highly recommend the work of Ricardo
Campos Well I'll leave it there and López Ibor
was more I mean he was a very
Catholic Opus Dei person whose work was
based above all on logicism which is
a bit like again that
mental illness is genetic it's hereditary
etcetera etcetera and during his years and
years as a psychiatrist he performed electrocardiograms on
sexual dissidents and today there is
a clinic with his name which is
also a clinic that is worth quite a bit of
money in which one of the floors which
is the fifth floor costs 500 a day okay
to give us an idea and where
famous people here usually go and such And
then he has other floors where it is
covered either by private insurance or it is
done privately And that clinic has I mean it
is located on a street
that has the name of Lopez Ibor it is not
supposed that  The clinic is a reference
of what psychiatry should be,
let's say what well-being would be, but
in that clinic, they continue
giving electroshocks and in that clinic they
continue tying people up. In fact, they have
a floor where they take people
tied up. Well, this would be a little bit with the
history of where psychiatry comes from
in Spain. All of this would be, I
mean, it would need to be developed
a lot more, but it seemed important to me to
bring it here, to this talk,
because it seems important to me to see where
we come from and also to see how the
anti-psychiatric movement here. The truth is
that the anti-psychiatry movement
could not develop too much. It is
true that there are certain figures like
Guillermo Rendueles, González Duro, Manuel
Desviat, who participated in what was
the psychiatric reform, but the
psychiatric reform was a bit like
changing names for spaces because the
people who have been admitted for decades, for
example, in Cemp Pozuelos,
that psychiatric reform did little to help them. Then
I will talk about the medical model, so
briefly, I don't know how I am seeing it, of time
and the biomedical model. This is the picture
that
the  which is a table that
explains the different editions of the
DSM-5 statistical analysis and
diagnosis manual from the
first edition in
1952 which had 128 disorders to the
latest which is the one from 2013 which had 541
not that this is a good example of how
the American Psychiatric Association
has been generating and multiplying all
the diagnoses and has been
increasingly monopolizing the living conditions and
even the circumstances
of life as they have been pathologizing them
in diagnoses and making a profit
since each disorder in the end
implies some medication medications
when later on the moment of truth
in what are
psychiatric medications there are five principles
that would be what are amphetamines that are
usually given to children in
attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder what would be vence cinas
that are not anxiolytics what are
antidepressants uh then the branch of
mood stabilizers and I'm missing one
Oh of course antipsychotics and
neuroleptics no but let's go that those  These are
the five principles. But all
psychiatric people have given us, in
fact, we have tried most of
the psychiatric medications because they
try one on you, then they try another, then they
try another and in reality there is no
scientific basis in all of this, nor
are there any. It is not like when you have a
physical illness that you know that they
can take an x-ray and it
shows, this is not visible and it is part of all
this marketing, so to speak.
This is the result of Spain
being the number one country in the consumption of
anxiolytics, which is what I mentioned
before that were the
vaccines. This is a real
outrage. I suppose it has a lot
to do with the
biomedical model, but here what many say
is because there is a lack of psychologists. But the
reality is that here there has been a lot of
culture of medication and a lot of culture,
especially from primary care,
primary care doctors who have
prescribed many, many VCIs to
cover up what are once again the
consequences of the
material conditions of life, of
labor exploitation, of the prices of flats,
the continuous crises.  etcetera no I mean
the population has been medicated and medicated
and
without that it's not that because there is we don't
know if really if there were more
psychiatrists the situation would be different
and then These are some graphs from the
drug agency on the consumption
of
psychotropic drugs in Spain and we see nothing
pu they are also on the rise and Ah okay And
then that would be about the
biomedical model let's see well I was going to read some
data before on the state of
Mental Health in the
Spanish state that this data comes from
the World Health Organization and
the National Health System here in
the Spanish State one in four
people suffers or will suffer from a
Mental Health problem throughout
their life 77% of suicides
occur in low-
and middle-income countries since 2020 Spain is ranked
as the fifth European country with the most poverty
suicide is the second cause of
death among people aged 15 to 29
in 2021 suicide attempts and
self-harm increased by 250%
in the young population of Spain in 2022
Spain  leads the consumption of psychopharma
in Europe well and then we see that in the
world also medicalized people
end up dying prematurely as much
as 20 years earlier due to
iatrogenesis to the negative physical alterations
produced by the
drugs people with
Mental Health problems are a social group in a
vulnerable situation that usually
suffers serious violations of their
human rights discrimination and
stigmatization and and well Then to say
that for example in the Spanish state what would be
the involuntary admission there is
a sentence that declares it
unconstitutional but it is still
carried out and now it is valid about
the invisibility of violence it is
very difficult in fact I think that it is the
most the most difficult thing for us as an
activism collective in Mental Health
is the impossibility of being able to demonstrate
the psychiatric violence that happens
because there is no there is no type of
record nor of
involuntary admissions there is no eh of course
when they admit you they take your cell phone away so there are
no photos no videos
there are very few graphic documents and it is
almost impossible to know about what
really happens in the Mental Health wards
of  In fact, many people think
that electroshocks are no longer used,
electroshocks are used and they are used on girls and
boys, they are used, girls and
boys are tied to their beds and adults are admitted
voluntarily and we have no record
of any of this. Later I will put
some slides on the
record of restraints that our
colleagues from the
Mejorana collective in Navarre managed to make and that
are being recorded every year
but in the rest of the State they are not being
recorded so there is no evidence.
Beyond what would be the report of the
UN rapporteur of 2017, in general there
is no evidence that this is happening
and many times when
psychiatric people eh are bad Or increasingly eh
In the end they end up in long-
stay centers or whatever, most of the
time it is because they do not have any type of
network, neither of family nor friends nor
material conditions that can
support them and on the other hand it is always said
that it is the illness itself that causes
the person to deteriorate instead
of saying that it is the drugs themselves
that cause that type of
deterioration in fact an example for
example that seems
mind-blowing to me is that there is a type of
antipsychotic neuroleptic that causes you to
roll your eyes
upwards okay or so there are people who
experience that who start to look upwards
and it is the typical image of a person who
is crazy and that is produced by the
medication itself that seems
quite clear to me of how this whole
system works so I'm going to talk about when
the cases when Yes there is visibility
of the cases and how it is manipulated and
that although there is visibility in the
media it even reaches
television it does not matter to the
person who receives it or to other
people or to change any type of
legislation or
anything the first case I'm going to talk about
is the case of Ivan Ivan is a kid
of about 30 years old who last year Well this
year at the beginning of this year they
gave him electroshocks at first he
signed that he wanted to be given it I
think it was like that because many times they
also
[ __ ] you because for example if you  You
want to be discharged, get out of the hospital now, they
tell you: If you sign the consent form for
electroshock,
electroconvulsive therapy, you'll be able to leave. No,
then it's like we're going to be
blackmailing you forever. So I think
that at first he signed it
and then his family and he said no,
that he didn't want to be given
electroshocks. Well, the doctors went
ahead and what was also very, very
significant about this case is
that despite the fact that it was on a lot of
television, that it was in the press, that it
was a pretty high-profile case.
Even Ivan's father went on a
hunger strike, the doctors
continued with the electroconvulsive therapy until the end
and they gave him
all the sessions
that they considered they should
give him because when the family said they did
n't want to give it to him, it was just
more pressure that they didn't. It should
be the family. It should be the
person themselves who said no. I mean, who
could decide whether they wanted the other one or not.
A judge decided that if they wanted to stop and the
doctors didn't want to, they didn't want to give in and it was
a kind of power struggle.  the one who
ended up receiving electroshocks
and in fact there are some there are some
headlines that are the truth
eh tremendous in which it says for
example the one that is here that says the
family of the young man subjected to
electroshock in which the hospital in the
hospital without consent asks for
justice is not the one he was no that is what
the survivors of electroconvulsive therapy usually say that
once
you have been given electroshocks the
loss of memory How are you in the days
after that they destroy you and that you
really are never the same it is
a practice that no that should not be done
in any way and that continues to be
done here and is still defended in fact
during Iván's case there were also
many articles defending
electroshocks even talking about the
black legend of electroshock no an
absolutely tremendous thing let's see I'm going to
put this that is
worth it to me
And and justice was not done obviously
he received the electroshocks And no and there he
remained despite all the
visibility and all the struggle of his
own family and other groups who
were also there a companion who is
no longer with us who  call briso who
participated a lot in the tolo pride in the
fight in this fight of the
Ivan case the next case is the case of
Andreas Andreas was killed after
being tied up for 75 hours in the
psychiatric unit of Asturias and
here her sister Aitana who has also
been very very very close to the
movements and the groups of
crazy activism tried well they collected
65 entities supported the family to
try to take him they took him they
dismissed the case and then they took it
to the constitutional and now I think they
are taking it to Europe in this case it
is also tremendous because Andreas when
she arrived at the hospital and I think she had well she would
have hallucinations whatever it
was and they admitted her and what she really had
was meningitis they kept her
tied up for 75 hours until they killed her and they
did that because she had a mother
with a diagnosis of schizophrenia
so they assumed that Andreas had
schizophrenia because her mother
had schizophrenia and they killed her
and in this case also well
justice has not been done it has been one of the  more
visible and it has been one of the most
visible to also talk about everything
that is the restraints because apart
from being tied to the bed which is still
said today because of the
danger that the person can have that the
person is in danger for
themselves or for others the
consequences of being tied apart from the fact
that it is an absolutely
traumatic experience and that it is considered torture
by the UN also obviously ends up
killing people and this practice we must
remember that it is also done in
senior centers it is done a lot here in
Spain with the excuse that
the senior is going to fall and such and then they
tie him up which seems to me an absolute perversity
in juvenile centers in
foreign training centers and in
prisons and here we have the record of
restraints which is tying to the
bed once to us on the
social networks of crazy pride a
psychiatrist told us that you did not say tie to
the bed that it was very pejorative that we
had to say mechanical restraint
no So that we can see Now how it is let's go the
perversion of  the perversion And this is
the data from the
restraint registry that thanks to the fact that the
colleagues from the Mejorana association
fought for it at the time, I think this was
in 2017 when the thing about
the governments of change began a bit and such with
the collaboration of Podemos, United We
Can, whatever it was at that time in
La Rioja, from the left-wing parties, they
managed to at least get the
registry, no, this is not there, we don't
have it in the rest of the State, only
in Navarre. So this is the registry
of people who have been
tied up from 2018 to 2022,
then the number, the evolution of
restraints, they normally say that if there is
a registry, they tend to be more careful when
tying people up, but come on, it's
not and at least you can
report it once you get out because the
problem is that if they tie you up in an admission
And then you would like to report that they have
tied you up, no, you have no way of
proving that they have tied you up, no, that's
also why this registry is so important
and here we have the number of patients
who have had some
episode of
containment then the breakdown by gender is
usually
men are tied more than women I suppose
also because of the issue of what is
considered more aggressive or less aggressive
or whatever and then also talk about
that many many times maybe they don't
tie you up but what they do is they inject you with a
strong painkiller or with a
strong avenzo or with a tranquilizer
and that is a chemical restraint
Likewise, just as in the admission
when you are inside the admission they give you
medication, I mean they say no when they give you
the medication if you don't want to
take it they tell you we're going to have problems and
when they say we're going to have problems it's that they are
going to tie you up basically so
the medication is why we say that the
medication is forced which is another
thing that many people also don't know
so this is the breakdown by gender
the average age of the patients
the average by sex I don't know very well my
colleagues from better Ana gave it to me
but I don't know what I did but well
And this is
uh more than three restraints in each
admission Because also of course if they tie you up
once you have more possibilities  that they
tie you up more times and for, I mean, what it
is during the whole English then the
type of
restraint that this is quite the
type of restraint is quite horrible
because it depends on the parts of the body in which they
tie you up so well
And that is the the average of Oh the
duration
of each restraint
and well it seems terrible to me that the
continuous nocturnal modality has been taken into account no but
normally when they tie you up they also
feed you and such And they usually keep you the
average is one day two days or for example
like the case of Andreas no that 72 hours
until they killed her and then This is the
proof that in the Spanish state
girls and boys are tied up that is that in
psychiatry patients under 18 years of age
who will be Well then adolescents
but also children and again the
type of
restraint
and here again the thing about the the duration
of the restraint in minors well it is
an absolute barbarity to have them tied up, I
mean in what society do we live in which they
tie up in which we tie up our children no I
mean I think and Well then in  What is
the additional information, well, as
usual, we do not continue working on
improving the quality of care and on
adapting income, which is
good, well, terrible
and nothing. And then, continuing with what
is the, I mean, what is the evidence
on psychiatric violence,
we in 2020 when during the
pandemic when we were locked up in
the pandemic, uh, they sent us some
kids who were teenagers
from Ciudad Real, they filed a complaint
with some with their own
testimonies on a specific floor in
Ciudad Real. Those testimonies, I think you
can search for them, they are called coming out worse than you come
out. You can find them in the
first vowel, which is a page that I
recommend as an archive that has an
archive of everything that is activism and
materials on clinical Mental Health, or
rather, clinical criticism, my goodness, and
well,
and when they sent it to us,
from Pride Crazy Madrid, we put it on
networks and when we put it on social networks, on
Instagram, on Twitter, we started to
receive a ton of testimonies.
We have those testimonies compiled
in a blog called, like, what we have
in  the screen that is
crazy pride states there are more than 60 testimonies
about psychiatric violence and we
also have pending at some point to be able to
collect more and at some point that we
also spoke about with Enrique the
possibility of being able to make this more
public also to comment that groups
like insania of Barcelona and companions
of Catalonia also made a
compilation of video testimonies that
also can be consulted
so I wanted to read some of
the
testimonies are very hard but they are I
think they have a value let's go
inestimable because the little evidence
that we have on
psychiatric violence and more from
first
person experience testimony one they pushed me by
force into the room and locked me
there testimony two a nurse told me
that the crazy patient is your enemy
testimony 3 How to recover from
psychological suffering in the face of such torture
testimony four I don't know what they gave me or
injected me that my heart stopped
testimony five I was tied up until the
next day begging to be
released testimony six the only thing we
did there was be locked in the
room testimony 80 what they
did to my friend  was to kill her alive
testimony 24 then I started screaming
and they tied me up for over a day
testimony 23 I was only 10 years old they
admitted me for a false diagnosis of
bulimia that my mother tried to deny and they would
n't let her testimony 22 and the
psychiatrist with his whole face tells me that I
should be glad that they're
harassing me testimony 21 I would leave my
room and lock myself in another one that I
called in the cloud and he would pump me full of
pills this I think is the Gregorio
Marañón thing about the cloud and then also
something that I forgot to say is
that as a result of the testimonies and
all that thing that we also already
knew but that we have proof of this
is the amount of sexual abuse that is
committed within the Mental Health system
and that goes absolutely
unpunished because our own
diagnoses delegitimize us no I mean
at the moment in which you go to
report that maybe eh They are
weighing you no because you have an
eating disorder and they start to grope you you ca
n't say anything because you're crazy
etcetera  etc. no
So how does this also happen every
day testimony 57 when I reported
sexual abuse to a colleague the
nursing assistants tied me to the
bed for two days testimony 16 They gave me
electroshock they tied me up they
drugged me they mistreated me they
left me purple and I was alone Red with
pain testimony 58 because of so much
restraint Now when I get
nervous no one can touch me because my
body relates it with that and I
control myself totally Not even my mother can
hug me when I go into
crisis testimony nue I found myself tied
to a bed and completely drugged
testimony 10 witnessed sexual abuse by
a psychiatrist to a patient who was
late and sedated testimony 11 It took me a
great trauma from my stay there and
the hospitals attracted me since then they
wanted me to keep quiet and they succeeded now
as much as it hurts I do not externalize
all this pain that I feel testimony 33 they did
not let us drink water more than a
glass at each meal testimony 32 nobody
realizes that I am there watching
how eight people tie my sister up
testimony 19 the woman  She was
put in isolation tied up and without
contact with the other companions
testimony 18 I felt that it was useless
to resist but the place was full of
patients who did it and the only thing they
did was tie them up and well then I
recommend Although it is very hard to
read the testimonies and also I have
launched the proposal here that at
some point we can collect more
between various groups and also be
able to publish at some point or or or
give them all the voice that we can give them
no more than the little that
our blog of crazy pride
denounces and now to finish
well I've already gone a bit too far I'm going to
talk about what the
crazy pride movement is Which I suppose has already been
talked about throughout all the
sessions But well talk a little about
what history has been here in the
Spanish state
that well there were movements that
began before
and already
as a result of the 15M
collectives like flipas en primer
persona were formed and also associations like
activam and then in 2000 in Asturias
the first crazy pride was celebrated I think it
was like in
200000  I don't remember well but it was
years before it was celebrated throughout
the state in 2018 in Madrid
we held our first
rally in Plaza de España in
front of, that is, where Don Quixote is held we
held a rally of about 200
people demanding an end to the
violation of human rights in the
Mental Health system and for another
conception of madness in
2019 we held another rally in
Atocha and in 2020 which is also true
as the pandemic was quite
strong there now that
people are becoming more aware of what
Mental Health was and that maybe it
wasn't a good idea to be locked up
when you're sick eh there were quite a few people
we held our first demonstration in
2021 we held another one in 2022 and the one in the
photo is from 2023 and well if you are more
curious about crazy pride Madrid I
recommend that you follow our blog
called crazy pride Madrid and well and
our social networks or if you are
in Madrid you come in some
welcome to  get to
know each other and then this is to talk about
other groups from the Spanish State
in the photo
of Zoroa's companions from
Bilbao appear and And then in Barcelona we
have the companions from insania who
are the most first-
person groups of survivors and
psychiatric people and fighters for
everything I'm telling and then
to finish and to give way to Edel
This is a photo of us from the
pride collective with Madrid in the
critical pride no and to talk about
the importance and how we will always be
united for the depathologization
of everything but also for the
depathologization of everything else and now I
give way Thank you very
much Thank you Fatima I really loved it
Well I'm loving everything
the whole congress is super powerful eh the
part of the testimonies has left me a
little touched But well or rather it's normal
eh I'm going to
share to see if I can how is this done
[Music]
window can be seen I don't see you now
but
well you can see the
presentation Yes okay
uh Well, I mean, I think there's
a lot of connection in all of this, uh. Also, understanding the
issue of dissent among
trans people in relation to the pathologization they
suffer. And well, I don't know if you've
heard. But less than a week ago,
Ayuso again proposed repealing the
law that had been passed in Madrid,
uh, the LGBTI law aims to remove
important points that would mean returning to the
pathologization that we trans people had, to
no longer prohibit
conversion therapies, and what we talked about regarding
language, also, not the importance of
how to determine, well, for example, in the case
of the law, it aims to remove everything that is
social,
uh, and to modify words like
trans people, to once again talk about the
transsexual condition with this attempt to
biomedicalize our
experience, to isolate it from the social and from
the political. I also liked
what my colleagues said, uh, before, well,
the euphemisms, not also from
these biopsychosocial perspectives. It's
good that although there is still a long way to go in
that sense because we are still in an
absolute psychiatrization,
also taking into account how  Bio comes
first, what is sio would come after,
and I think that the social would practically
be forgotten, right? And in that sense, I would
like to rescue
the political as well, more than that,
right? And it's in that sense that I
want to talk about the trans
from the political side. Well, I'm going to
present a little bit of the more
theoretical part of my thesis project, which is
going to be based mainly on
testimonies of life stories,
but I want to give it a little bit
to start a debate or to be able to
reflect on these issues, and I'm going to
start with an extract from the
manifesto of the
2012 pathologization campaign, which was a bit
like the beginning of this whole fight for
the depathologization of
trans identities in the Spanish state, and in this
case in Barcelona. It says that
trans activists from all over the world, from different
continents and cities, are taking
to the streets again to demand
trans depathologization. Under the slogan,
trans identities are not an illness,
we denounce that even today, in the
21st century, transsexual identities
transgender and transvestites are still present
as gender incongruence or
transvestism disorder in the recently published
draft of the dsm5 we demand the
decataloging of gender identity from
the international catalogs of
dsmc diseases and we fight for the right to decide
autonomously over our own
bodies the discourse of pathologization
has collapsed we have brought it down
by denouncing these therapies year
after year there are no more excuses and there are
ideas that can no longer be defended
well this is the part of the
manifesto that was made in 2010 and that
began to have more boom in 2012 and as
we see in this place in the end what
I want to make clear is that even if there are
legislative reforms and even
if we gradually manage to
depathologize sexual dissidence there
will always be a tension
between the people who are at the bottom and
the power not in this case a resistance
with medical legal institutions and
that also have to do eh Well with a
whole network of power not um
good to talk a  a little bit of this
transsexual condition that he wants to
rescue eh to yuso well eh the origin of
this transsexual condition or of
transsexuality comes from the
medical and legal construction not from
our experience eh if we think of a
milestone of how this definition began eh well we
can go back to 1966 eh
with Harry Benjamin and his book the
transsexual phenomenon eh well in this
book although these issues were already being discussed and
debated within the scientific community,
experiments were also carried out with populations with
sexual dissidents not eh always as
subjects of experimentation
eem also to reinforce what we
understand now as
sexual difference it has been necessary to do these
experiments eem Well then Harry
Benjamin what he proposes is that
a therapy
eh a hormonal and surgical in the case
of trans people is mandatory not what
is the difference and what he proposes is
the term of transsexual process zador
not what would be like Well that eh
linear way of understanding eh what he conceives
as a sex change and that